Batch Processing
================

CellProfiler is designed to analyze images in a high-throughput manner.
Once a pipeline has been established for a set of images, CellProfiler
can export files that enable batches of images to be analyzed on a
computing cluster with the pipeline.

It is possible to process tens or even hundreds of thousands of images
for one analysis in this manner. We do this by breaking the entire set
of images into separate batches, then submitting each of these batches
as individual jobs to a cluster. Each individual batch can be separately
analyzed from the rest.

The following describes the workflow for running your pipeline on a cluster
that's physically located at your local institution; for running in a cloud-based
cluster using Amazon Web Services, please see our `blog post`_ on Distributed
CellProfiler, a tool designed to streamline that process.

Submitting files for batch processing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below is a basic workflow for submitting your image batches to a
cluster.

#. *Create a folder for your project on your cluster.* For
   high-throughput analysis, it is recommended to create a separate
   project folder for each run.
#. Within this project folder, create the following folders (both of
   which must be connected to the cluster computing network):

   -  Create an input folder, then transfer all of your images to this
      folder as the input folder. The input folder must be readable by
      everyone (or at least your cluster) because each of the separate
      cluster computers will read input files from this folder.
   -  Create an output folder where all your output data will be stored.
      The output folder must be writeable by everyone (or at least your
      cluster) because each of the separate cluster computers will write
      output files to this folder.

   If you cannot create folders and set read/write permissions to these
   folders (or do not know how), ask your Information Technology (IT)
   department for help.
#. Press the “View output settings” button. In the
   panel that appears, set the Default Input and Default Output Folders
   to the *images* and *output* folders created above, respectively. The
   Default Input Folder setting will only appear if a legacy pipeline is
   being run.
#. *Create a pipeline for your image set.* You should test it on a few
   example images from your image set (if you are unfamiliar with the
   concept of an image set, please see the help for the **Input**
   modules). The module settings selected for your pipeline will be
   applied to *all* your images, but the results may vary depending on
   the image quality, so it is critical to ensure your settings are
   robust against your “worst-case” images.
   For instance, some images may contain no cells. If this happens, the
   automatic thresholding algorithms will incorrectly choose a very low
   threshold, and therefore “find” spurious objects. This can be
   overcome by setting a lower limit on the threshold in the
   **IdentifyPrimaryObjects** module.
   The Test mode in CellProfiler may be used for previewing the results
   of your settings on images of your choice. Please refer to
   *Help > Testing Your Pipeline* for more details on how to use this
   utility.
#. *Add the CreateBatchFiles module to the end of your pipeline.*
   This module is needed to resolve the pathnames to your files with
   respect to your local machine and the cluster computers. If you are
   processing large batches of images, you may also consider adding
   **ExportToDatabase** to your pipeline, after your measurement modules
   but before the CreateBatchFiles module. This module will export your
   data either directly to a MySQL or SQLite database. Please refer to 
   the help for these modules in order learn more about which settings 
   are appropriate.
#. *Run the pipeline to create a batch file.* Click the *Analyze images*
   button and the analysis will begin processing locally. Do not be
   surprised if this initial step takes a while: CellProfiler must
   first create the entire image set list based on your settings in the
   **Input** modules (this process can be sped up by creating your list
   of images as a CSV and using the **LoadData** module to load it).
   With the **CreateBatchFiles** module in place, the pipeline will not
   process all the images, but instead will create a batch file (a file
   called *Batch\_data.h5*) and save it in the Default Output Folder
   (Step 1). The advantage of using **CreateBatchFiles** from the
   researcher’s perspective is that the Batch\_data.h5 file generated by
   the module captures all of the data needed to run the analysis. You
   are now ready to submit this batch file to the cluster to run each of
   the batches of images on different computers on the cluster.
#. *Submit your batches to the cluster.* Log on to your cluster, and
   navigate to the directory where you have installed CellProfiler on
   the cluster.
   A single batch can be submitted with the following command:

   ::

      ./python -m cellprofiler -p <Default_Output_Folder_path>/Batch_data.h5 \\
      -c -r \\
      -f <first_image_set_number> \\
      -l <last_image_set_number>

   This command submits the batch file to CellProfiler and specifies
   that CellProfiler run in a batch mode without its user interface to
   process the pipeline. This run can be modified by using additional
   options to CellProfiler that specify the following:

   -  ``-p <Default_Output_Folder_path>/Batch_data.h5``: The
      location of the batch file, where ``<Default\_Output\_Folder\_path>``
      is the output folder path as seen by the cluster computer.
   -  ``-c``: Run “headless”, i.e., without the GUI
   -  ``-r``: Run the pipeline specified on startup, which is contained
      in the batch file.
   -  ``-f <first_image_set_number>``: Start processing with the image
      set specified, <first\_image\_set\_number>
   -  ``-l <last_image_set_number>``: Finish processing with the image
      set specified, <last\_image\_set\_number>
   -  ``-g <Metadata\_A=B>``: Instead of ``-f`` and ``-l``, if your pipeline
      had grouping enabled in the **Groups** or **LoadData** modules, you 
      can pass in a metadata-defined group, such as ``-g Metadata_Well=A01``
      or ``-g Metadata_Timepoint=0``

   Typically, a user will break a long image set list into pieces and
   execute each of these pieces using the command line switches, ``-f``
   and ``-l`` to specify the first and last image sets in each job. A
   full image set would then need a script that calls CellProfiler with
   these options with sequential image set numbers, e.g, 1-50, 51-100,
   etc to submit each as an individual job. This will work whether 
   grouping is enabled in the pipeline or not; you can only use the ``g``
   option if grouping is enabled in the pipeline.

   If you need help in producing the batch commands for submitting your
   jobs, use the ``--get-batch-commands`` followed by the path to the 
   Batch\_data.h5 file output by the CreateBatchFiles module.
   (In CellProfiler 4.2.2 or greater we recommend using ``--get-batch-commands-new``).
   You can set the number of images per batch with the ``--images-per-batch``
   flag. 
   When specified, CellProfiler will output one line to the terminal per
   job to be run. This output should be further processed to generate a
   script that can invoke the jobs in a cluster-computing context.

   The above notes assume that you are running CellProfiler using our
   source code (see “Developer’s Guide” under Help for more details). If
   you are using the compiled version, you would replace
   ``./python -m cellprofiler`` with the CellProfiler executable
   file itself and run it from the installation folder.

Once all the jobs are submitted, the cluster will run each batch
individually and output any measurements or images specified in the
pipeline. Specifying the output filename using the ``-o`` switch when
calling CellProfiler will also produce an output file containing the
measurements for that batch of images in the output folder. Check the
output from the batch processes to make sure all batches complete.
Batches that fail for transient reasons can be resubmitted.

To see a listing and documentation for all available arguments to
CellProfiler, type``cellprofiler --help``.

For additional help on batch processing, refer to our `wiki`_ if
installing CellProfiler on a Unix system, our
`wiki <http://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler/wiki/Adapting-CellProfiler-to-a-LIMS-environment>`__ on adapting CellProfiler to a LIMS
environment, or post your questions on the CellProfiler `forum`_.

.. _wiki: http://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler/wiki/Source-installation-%28Linux%29
.. _forum: https://forum.image.sc/tag/cellprofiler
.. _blog post: https://carpenterlab.broadinstitute.org/blog/making-it-easier-to-run-image-analysis-in-the-cloud-announcing-distributed-cellprofiler
